.TH ZF 1 "2024-10-01" "zf 0.10.0"

.SH NAME
zf -\ a commandline fuzzy finder that prioritizes matches on filenames

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B zf [options]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B zf is a simple, general-purpose fuzzy finder that prioritizes matches on
filenames.

zf reads a list of newline separated strings on stdin and displays an
interactive interface. Pressing enter outputs the selected line on stdout. Text
may be entered to filter the list of strings.

Multiple lines may be marked as selected with tab and shift-tab. When multiple
lines are selected, pressing enter outputs only the marked lines to stdout.

Each whitespace-separated term in the query string is used separately to narrow
down the search results. For example, searching for "init config" will select
all results that match both "init" and "config". Note that the query is restricted
to a maximum of 16 whitespace-separated tokens.

Matching is case insensitive unless an uppercase letter is found in the query.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-delimiter
Set the delimiter used to split candidates (default \\n)
.
.TP
.BR \-0
Shorthand for -d'\\0' to split on null bytes
.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-filter
Skip interactive use and filter using the given query
.
.TP
.BR \-\-height
The height of the interface in rows (default 10)
.
.TP
.BR \-k ", " \-\-keep\-order
Don't sort by rank and preserve order of lines read on stdin. This makes zf remove
any lines that don't match, but the order of lines will not change.
.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-lines
Alias of --height. Deprecated and will be removed in version 1.0.0.
.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-plain
Treat input as plaintext and disable filepath matching features. Useful when the input lines are not
file paths.
.
.TP
.BR \-\-preview
Executes a command substituting {} with the current selected line and displays the output in a side column.
.
.TP
.BR \-\-preview-width
Sets the preview column width (default 60%).
.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Show version information and exit
.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help and exit

.SH ENV VARIABLES

.BR ZF_PROMPT
Override the default >  prompt by assigning a string to this variable.
For example export ZF_PROMPT="$ ".

.BR ZF_HIGHLIGHT
Set the color used to highlight matches. Valid colors are: black, red, green, yellow, blue, magenta, cyan, white
bright_black, bright_red, bright_green, bright_yellow, bright_blue, bright_magenta, bright_cyan, and bright_white.
The default color is cyan.

.BR ZF_VI_MODE
When this variable is present and not empty ctrl+k moves up a line. When disabled ctrl+k deletes from the cursor
to the end of line.

.BR NO_COLOR
Disables colors. See https://no-color.org

.SH COMMANDS

.TP
.BR enter
Write the selected line or all marked lines to stdout and exit
.
.TP
.BR "escape, ctrl-c"
Exit zf without selecting anything
.
.TP
.BR "up, ctrl-p, ctrl-k"
Select the next line up
.
.TP
.BR "down ctrl-n, ctrl-j"
Select the next line down
.
.TP
.BR "tab"
Mark the current line as selected and select the next line
.
.TP
.BR shift-tab
Mark the current line as selected and select the previous line
.
.TP
.BR "left, ctrl-b"
Move the cursor left
.
.TP
.BR "right, ctrl-f"
Move the cursor right
.
.TP
.BR ctrl-a
Move the cursor to the beginning of the line
.
.TP
.BR ctrl-e
Move the cursor to the end of the line
.
.TP
.BR "backspace, ctrl-h"
Delete the character before the cursor
.
.TP
.BR "delete, ctrl-d"
Delete the character under the cursor
.
.TP
.BR ctrl-w
Delete the word before the cursor
.
.TP
.BR ctrl-u
Delete from the cursor to the beginning of the line

.SH EXAMPLES

.TP
.BR "find -type f | zf"
Fuzzy find on the file tree in the current directory
.
.TP
.BR "vim $(find -type f | zf)"
Fuzzy find on the file tree and open the selcted file in vim
.
.TP
.BR "git switch $(git branch | cut -c 3- | zf)"
Switch to selected git branch
.
.TP
.BR "find -type f | zf --preview 'cat {}'"
Fuzzy find files and show a preview of the contents using cat

.SH EXIT STATUS

.TP
.BR 0
Success
.
.TP
.BR 1
No candidates given on stdin or aborted the interactive interface with esc or ctrl-c
.
.TP
.BR 2
Error

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Nathan Craddock
